So, what we need to do is,
we need to send that payload,
that JWT, to the server and
somehow we need to decrypt or
decode this JWT and
store some of that data in our database.
Because maybe the user tomorrow Will
actually come back using Google.
And here it's your decision,
if you wanna force the user to also
have a password as a backup or no.
Most websites are forcing you to
create a local password as well.
But you are not forced to that,
it's your decision, okay?
So If the user is getting your
website through Google you can decide,
okay well that's how you
will get here always.
Or you can offer the user
to also store a password or
to also store another factor for
this website, okay?
Makes sense?
Well, the next step is to
just do something else
here in login from Google, right?
We don't need just that,
because that doesn't make any sense.
So what we're going to do is here we're
going to also create another API.
Another endpoint, okay?
So we need to create,
we have login, register.
This is something different.
This is login from Google.
It's a different thing because
the data we are sending,
we don't have a password here.
So my Gmail password will not appear here.
Okay, so I'm going to create another,
we received data with the payload
that comes from the auth server.
So I'm going to say something
like from here login from Google.
Let's say we're going to call,
what I'm going to
do is here say that I will
have login Google, okay?
And I will call this from where?
From auth.js so
now I'm coming back to that part.
I'm coming back to this one I'm
going to write something like this.
So here what I'm going to do is
then I'm going to call the API and
see while the server is responding so
login from Google.
By the way, I didn't create
the endpoint in the server yet, so
this is not gonna work yet.
And because I'm using a weight, I need
to add an async modifier, join function.
And when I'm here,
I will just call post login,
because the user can
just login differently.
But it's still logging in, okay?
And remember, I had the response and
then I need to have the user, okay?
And I don't have the user right now,
so I need to create a new option.
And I would expect my server to
give me a name and an email.
That, I'm expecting that
to be decoded from,
in this case, the payload that Jwt.
So when we are using a federated login,
we need to create a separate process for
that.
Should we create one per provider
actually depends on the case.
If you're using this systems that are
already using an SDK from each provider,
typically, you will need
to create one per provider.
If you're usingAuth, like from scratch and
you are building your own Auth flow,
maybe you can just have one flow for
all the provider.
But anyway remember that you will need
to register on each provider manually.
So now we can log in with username and
password and that username and
password can be pre populated
automatically from credentials manager.
And now we can login with Google, okay?
We still need to make the server part,
but so far, first of all,
>> Do you need to pass the data into line
31?
>> I need to tell it, right now yeah,
I'm not passing the data so
you're right, I need to take
the data that I'm getting from,
so this data is coming from here,
from the global callback.
Okay, so now let's go to the server and
let's add the new endpoint.
So, Here, to be honest,
you need to make some decisions.
Okay, so because there are many decisions
to make, so we'll say log in Google,
request, response, and
we're going to do something inside.
I mean, decisions are like what
happens if the user has already
an account with passwords?
Are you going to attach the Google login
to it or creating like a separate user?
Typically you want to attach,
what happens if the user has no password?
So that email address is unique, it's
the first time it's as in your website.
Do you want to create the password or not?
So, decisions that you make as
the product owner in this case.
So, but the first thing that we
need is to decode that string so
remember that what we received is.
Now we have it here,
we received something like this, okay?
And we will get that server file.
So we need to decode that.
So for that I already have
a dependency that decodes JWTs.
It's J W T J E S D code.
That's the open source library.
So the first thing that maybe I wanna do,
is decode.gwt.
So, I'm going to say,
jwt.jsdecode.jwtdecode,
that's the name of the function.
I'm going to pass from the body,
a credential data, or
I can call this however you want, but
remember we are passing the data
as it's coming from Google.
And the name of the property
was credential,
that how Google is setting that property,
okay?
Make sense, so what.
Now, okay,
we need to do something with this,
first where is the user
data within that property?
Let's see that again.
Is this data, okay?
So this is the data that
we are actually receiving.
So we want from here the name,
the email, if we want the picture.
So all the data you want.
Okay, so from here, so
this is called credential.
So if you wanna receive it at credential,
maybe what we should be doing in our,
auth.js, cuz I think I'm not sending
it as credential I'm sending the data.
If you want,
you can say credential data here.
It's I mean, if not,
we can just remove that key and
take the whole object as as granted.
But in case you want to send
something else because typically,
you send more information, timestamps,
the current user rationed.
So when you say new users
typically you say more data,
that we are not doing it today.
So that's why I'm using like
an object proper for this.
So going back to the server, so
I'm taking the credential and now,
from that credential, I'm going
to create a property with a user,
and actually what I need is to take from
that object a property known as payload.
So, for example, the email,
it's available on myJWT.payload.
That's how the code works,
it gives you the payload,
of that JWT, and I want the email.
Whats the name?
Well, Google will give you both,
they give a name with a snake case,
so we underscore, and
the family name, the last name.
So you decide which one
do you want to store or
both, payload.familyname.
Okay and then do we have a password?
No, so we can say password,
no password false or
nothing it's up to you or undefined, okay?
Why I'm saying this is because remember
we are writing a database here and
all the other entries,
they have a password.
We don't need all the objects
to have the same schema, okay?
So that's not mandatory.
But at least we should express that
this user has no password right now.
And it will have more other kind
of information, no password, but
something else.
Okay, makes sense?
Well with that user, we should try
to find if it's a new user or not.
So user found,
find user by its email, okay?
Like so why?
Because if it's new,
we are going to save a new entry.
If you already have it,
we're going to attach the Google payload
data to the current user, right?
Make sense?
So if the user is found,
we can do something like, okay,
we are going to create a Google property.
And we're going to save
here as a Google property,
the AUAD, that's the ID from Google.
Remember, that's a property
going back here.
AUAD is this, okay,
that's an ID that represents that user.
You can store more properties if you want,
the whole JWT metadata.
But yeah,
maybe we don't need to store everything.
After that,
I'm going to write to the database.
I'm going to respond to the client,
okay, true, so the login was successful.
And also I should deliver
the name because, remember that,
the client doesn't know
about the name yet, right?
Because the user has just logged in with
his or her Google account and the email.
So we are sending that
data back to the client.
And if it's a new user, okay?
Well, I'm going to talk to my
database dot data dot users.
I'm going to push a new user,
a new object in an object and
we'll take the current user
that I have just created.
So I'm going to populate,
I'm going to spread the current audit
the data that I have just defined.
And also I'm going to
say I'm going to save
the Google payload the same
Google property that I did before
Payload dot AUAD.
If you think that you will have more
federated logins in the future,
maybe instead of doing this,
you could say instead of user Google,
you can change and create a federated
object that will have a Google property.
I mean,
we are creating our own organization here.
Okay, so then if I follow that, I need
to do something like this, make sense?
So I'm creating my own structure
because now the user may
have different ways to login into my app.
And is the same user.
So after that, I'm going to also bright
I need two or more the same thing,
while I could do this after
the if actually, but anyway.
Okay, so that's the flow, and
here you can make many decisions about
what do you wanna do with your user.